Children, then, constitute a third party, to which the first and second voluntarily surrendered their independence, — a party which, as it may be helpless, demands the interference of a fourth party in relatives, or a fifth in society.
The world has fulfilled the command of God : we have increased and multiplied, until now in our little island of Great Britain, it has become a popular question, too important to be trifled with, whether we are not increasing too fast?
Gentlemen, who have ever tried the cap, may be assured that to all those who too copiously evacuate their fluid, the cap will be of singular utility, as, by its tightness, it prevents the flow from being too abundant, thus preserving the seed for more frequent enjoyments than would be otherwise experienced.
In these descriptions, gentleman, we have been under the necessity, from the heartiest conviction, of ascribing every good quality to the human seed.
A very striking proof of this I beg leave to give you, by reciting a story of a certain hairdresser of Edinburgh, the truth of which is as well known to all the inhabitants of Edinburgh as to myself personally, because the man was near neighbour to my father, while I was a youth at that college, and indeed the truth of the story is well known.
If it were necessary, however, to express the opinion which I have formed from the careful comparison of these two series of cases, I should be inclined to conclude : I.
The second had small subcutaneous tubercles, especially on the lower extremities, which terminated in ulceration.
If this should not be effectual, it should be at once place in warm water, at the temperature of blood heat, at 98°.
Opiates were adminiftered in the firft twelve days, and at fuitable intervals, clyfters to keep his bowels in a proper ftate.
Now and then, particularly when it occurs for the first time, the whole process of a miscarriage does not occupy more than six or seven hours 136 OF MISCARRIAGE.
These will effect a cure in almost every case ; but, as is barely possible, if bronchitis does not yield to them, a specific treatment will be given on application to me by letter, or in person.
Before concluding, we think it right to mention, that, in many instances, patients who have in early life indulged in the habit of self-pollution, are frequently, many years after they have abandoned the pernicious habit, annoyed and rendered wretched by the consequences which it has left behind it.
Divorce is tolerated on condition that the husband restore the portion of his wife brought him, but is seldom practised, as mutual necessities and habits perpetuate the union of the poor; and the rich can choose a more complaisant mistress without dismissing the former. Temporary intercourse is rather forbidding by the pride of the sex than by any legal or moral obligation, it being regarded as a brief marriage, and inconstancy as a divorce.
Page Forty-Seven Four days pass thus.
It will be an acceptable service to society, if the reader, who has attentively, and, we hope, usefully perused these pages, will forward, with as much privacy as may be, under envelope, anonymously or otherwise, our little work, to such of his friends or acquaintances whom, as he may have good reason either to know or suspect, have been the secret victims of the baneful habit we have described.
Because the tongue, being full of pores and spongy, receives great moisture to it, and more in a drunken man than in sober ; therefore the tongue, through often drinking, is full of bad humours; and so the faculty of tasting is rendered out of ordered : also, through the thickening of the taste itself, drink taken by the drunkards is not presently felt.
To the peculiarities of constitution, as well as degrees of infection, muft be attributed the different periods in which particular difeafes make their appearance.
The sore is very painful, and encircled with a dark purple areola.
In the present instance, I purpose to confine my remarks to the difficulties with which the treatment of the venereal diseases is so often embarrassed, and, in order to avoid confusion, I wish it to be understood that I shall employ the term syphilis, to the general or constitutional disease hereditarily acquired, or originating in an ulcer of the genital organs, arising from contagion, and the term venereal to all other affections, resulting from local contagion to the same parts ; for, notwithstanding that these affections and syphilis have some analogical symptoms, yet being of different natures, they require very different modes of treatment.
The Lips, which are visible to the eye, and are designed by nature as a cover to the Fissura Magna, or great orifice : Thefe are framed of the body, and have pretty ftore of fpongy fat ; and their ufe is to keep the internal parts from cold and duft.
An exclusion of the fetus six weeks after marriage, is called a miscarriage, between that and six months, an abortion, between that and nine, a premature labor.
Some women, it is true, are subject to a slight haemorrhage that sometimes occurs with considerable regularity during pregnancy, and which has led them to suppose they have their turns at such term ; but it is not so ; the discharge at such times is real blood. The use of the menstrual discharge seems to be, to prepare the uterine system for conception.
In the man are lodged the principles of life, or rudiments of future children; and in the woman are disposed the proper place for their reception and the means of their nourishment.
In the firft inftance pain, in fome particular part of the abdomen, is the earlieft fymptom ; whilft in the laft, we commonly find in the commencement of the difeafe a general tendernefs of the whole cavity of the belly.
It begins at the neck of the bladder, and fo paffeth to the glands : in the beginning of it are three holes : one in the midft which is largeft, which receives the urine into it ; the other two are fmaller, which are fent by each feminal veffel to it, by which it receives feed.
The difeafe commenced, he faid, in the year 1770, when he contracted a clap, for the cure of which, his furgeon had purged him pretty brifkly, and ufed a confiderable quantity of mercurial ointment, until the infection was fuppofed to be removed ; then, balfamics, aftringents, &c. &c. were adminiftered; and he afterwards ufed the cold bath for feveral weeks fucceffively.
But if the immunity of the fetus, under such circumstances, be possible, we should deceive ourselves, to the great prejudice of families, in believing it to be certain.
Pray God blefs and fanctify your penitential Sorrow to you ; make it fincere, and increafe it to an excellent and perfect Repentance.
